---
layout: post
title: 'Chapter 15'
date: 2020-06-28
author: Xiao Guo
cover: '/assets/img/MountAl.jpg'
tags: CS3114 week5 data-structures
---

> Chapter 15 Advanced Data Structures

### Skip Lists
The reason why we want skip lists are similar to BST:  we want to overcome the basic limitation of array-based and linked lists. However, we know the BST can easily became unbalanced and its solution, 2-3 tree is hard to implement. In this case, skip lists came to the stage since it's relatively easy to implement and usually provides a good performance. 

Implementation from [openDSA](https://canvas.vt.edu/courses/111334/modules/items/901547): 
```
class SkipNode {
    private KVPair rec;
    private SkipNode[] forward;

    public Object element() {
      return rec.value();
    }

    public Comparable key() {
      return rec.key();
    }

    public SkipNode(Comparable key, Object elem, int level) {
      rec = new KVPair(key, elem);
      forward = new SkipNode[level + 1];
      for (int i = 0; i < level; i++)
        forward[i] = null;
    }

    public String toString() {
      return rec.toString();
    }
  }
```

```
class SkipList implements Dictionary {
  private SkipNode head;
  private int level;
  private int size;
  static private Random ran = new Random(); // Hold the Random class object

  public SkipList() {
    head = new SkipNode(null, null, 0);
    level = -1;
    size = 0;
  }
```
for more on:[full implementation from CNblog](https://www.cnblogs.com/learnhow/p/6749648.html)


Performance: The skip list is basically trading space complexity for the time complexity. This makes it usually performs better than BST.


### Spatial Data Structures
Normally, the search tree structures we learned like BST, AVL trees, 2-3 trees, etc are designed and implemented for the purpose of searching a one-dimensional key. Which means the key and value have a relationship of one-to-one. However, in real-life we often need multiple keys like different information of one same person. In this case, we need data structures that can store and search the multiple keys like x and y coordinates where each of these keys are equally weighted so that they all need to be considered. Naturally, we can extend the BST to be kd-tree for two-dimensional and PR-quad tree which uses key-space decomposition.

### PR Quadtree
The quadtree can be regarded as a high-dimensional variant of the binary search tree. It is suitable for storing and querying data with two-dimensional attributes. Of course, the quadtree does not necessarily store two-dimensional data, but has two-dimensional attributes. The data, such as points with x,y information, can also be used to store line and area data. When inserting data, we choose one of the four branches through its two-dimensional properties (usually x, y) to continue down to the leaf node, and also use the "quartile" to quickly find the data.

Common applications of quadtrees are image processing, spatial data indexing, fast collision detection in 2D, sparse data, etc.
When implementing the quadtree, we can consider using a flyweight node like we did for the project2. This is called Flyweight-design pattern.

### KD Trees
KD tree is a natural modification of BST to adapt the need of multi-dimensional searching. In this case, searching in a KD tree is pretty similiar to BST. The only difference is that each level of kd tree is associated with a certain discriminator.

Some method from [openDSA](https://canvas.vt.edu/courses/111334/modules/items/901550)

```
private E findhelp(KDNode<E> rt, int[] key, int level) {
  if (rt == null) return null;
  E it = rt.element();
  int[] itkey = rt.key();
  if ((itkey[0] == key[0]) && (itkey[1] == key[1]))
    return rt.element();
  if (itkey[level] > key[level])
    return findhelp(rt.left(), key, (level+1)%D);
  else
    return findhelp(rt.right(), key, (level+1)%D);
}
```

```
private KDNode<E>
findmin(KDNode<E> rt, int descrim, int level) {
  KDNode<E> temp1, temp2;
  int[] key1 = null;
  int[] key2 = null;
  if (rt == null) return null;
  temp1 = findmin(rt.left(), descrim, (level+1)%D);
  if (temp1 != null) key1 = temp1.key();
  if (descrim != level) {
    temp2 = findmin(rt.right(), descrim, (level+1)%D);
    if (temp2 != null) key2 = temp2.key();
    if ((temp1 == null) || ((temp2 != null) &&
                   (key1[descrim] > key2[descrim])))
    temp1 = temp2;
    key1 = key2;
  } // Now, temp1 has the smaller value
  int[] rtkey = rt.key();
  if ((temp1 == null) || (key1[descrim] > rtkey[descrim]))
    return rt;
  else
    return temp1;
}
```


### The Bintree
Similiar with KD tree, bintree is a natural modification of BST to support multi-dimensional key search. Although it theoretically can be used to unify any set of keys, we usually use it to search on multidimensional coordinates like locations in 2D or 3D space.

Note: the use of flyweight applies here. However, when we implementing the flyweight-pattern design, we need to consider the control system.
f the left subtree must be less than a1, all values ​​of the middle subtree must be between a1 and a2, and all values ​​of the right subtree must be greater than a2.
