---
layout: post
title: 'Chapter 15  Advanced Data Structures'
date: 2020-06-07
author: Xiao Guo
cover: '/assets/img/MountAl.jpg'
tags: CS3114 week2 data-structures 
---

> Advanced Data Structures

### Skip Lists
Comparing to 2-3 tree, AVL tree and splay tree, skip list is relatively easy while effective at most time.
[implementation](https://canvas.vt.edu/courses/111334/modules/items/901547)

### PR Quadtree
A quad-tree is a data structure that is a data structure with up to four subtrees per node.
The quadtree is the only suitable algorithm for locating pixels in two-dimensional pictures. Because in a two-dimensional space (the way diagrams are often described), planar pixels can be repeatedly divided into four parts, and the depth of the tree is determined by the complexity of the picture, computer memory, and graphics.
The quadtree can be used to place and locate files (called records or keys) in the database. This algorithm performs matching search by continuously dividing the record to be searched into 4 parts until only one record remains.

Features:
1. Can be decomposed into their respective blocks
2. Each block has node capacity. When the node reaches the maximum capacity, the node splits
3. The tree-like data structure is distinguished according to the quaternary tree method

Note:The quaternary tree can be classified by their data form representation. The data form items are: area, point, line and curve. The quaternary tree can also be classified regardless of whether the shape of the tree is independent of the processed ranking data. 


